and how you came to be, maybe. My full name is Eugene
Thomas Skidmore. And very few people in this state
know that. And most all of the veterinarians know
me as Zeke. It's a nickname I came by when I was in
high school, and it went all the way through
college, and it's still with me. The only people
that call me Eugene are people that do not know me.
They call me on the phone trying to sell me
something. And you're immediately on alert. Or my
immediately family, and they call me Gene. That is
family on my side of the family. The rest of them
don't, but I was born in the Depression, and my
father died about four months before I was born, so
I was raised by a widow woman. And we moved to Texas
in 1940. So you were not born in Texas? No, I was born
in Des Moines, Iowa. Oh, okay. And we moved to Texas
in 1943.
And had my 11th birthday the day after we arrived. I
went to finish elementary school and high school
in El Paso, Texas. Graduated from El Paso High
School in 1950 and entered Texas A&M the same year.
How did you get to Texas A&M? On the train. No, I
mean, I had a long train ride, too, wasn't it? Yeah,
it was. The reason I went to Texas A&M is that along
in the middle of my high school career, I knew that I
wanted to work with horses. Being a family of very,
very modest means, there's no way that I was ever
going to be able to work on horses of my own, and I
thought it would be a very good way to make a living,
be working on somebody else's animals, and the
best way I could think of was to go to vet school. Did
you have a horse? No, I had plenty to ride. I was
fortunate that there was quite a few people in the
area that had lots of money and they had horses and
they didn't have time to ride them and they paid me
to ride them and I trained their horses to where I
could rope off of and so I had plenty of horses to
rope from. In those days nobody had trailers, at
least us kids didn't have trailers and we would get
up Sunday morning and go to a rope and it'd be twenty
miles away and ride a horse and lead three. And we
got there, we'd have a fresh horse to rope on and
have something to come back on. And you were a
cowboy. No, I was a roper. Okay, okay. But I
investigated and found the only place that I could
go to vet school in the state was in Texas A&M. I
said, well, here I come. So you really knew what you
were going to do? I knew what I wanted to do. I
enrolled at A&M, and they issued me a uniform, and
some guy ran up to me and says, hey, you got to call
all these guys sir and all that. I said, that's a
bunch of bull. I didn't know anything about Texas
A&M. I didn't know anything about Texas A&M, and I
was in for a shock, and I became gung-ho like most
everybody else does in Aggie in the Corps, and I
went along with it, and I think it's one of the best
things that ever happened. I hate to see the Corps
go downhill, But with that many students, it's got
two, and it's coed now. But I interviewed to get
into vet school after I finished my two years of
pre-vet, or during my two years of pre-vet. And I
had an interview with the dean once before that.
And my sophomore year in pre-vet, I made an F in
chemistry at midterm. On my second major quiz, I
froze. And it's about five minutes before the end
of the class before I even got my name spelled
right. And I heard through the test, missing all
kinds of subscripts and everything. I made 50 on
it, and I ended up with a- That's pretty good. Oh, I
thought so. That was pretty good, considering- I
thought so. And anyway, I ended up with the- 69
average in the course. And at that time, 70 was
passing. And everybody that was failing the
course had to go see the dean. And the dean at that
time of the veterinary college was Dr. Boughton.
And all the rumors about him, that was a mean man.
And he had just gotten out of the hospital. He'd had
a stroke. And he had a cane that he walked with. And
he swung that cane. And he cussed. And he banged the
desk and all of that. So I arrived at his office when
I was assigned to, and he sent me down in there, and
he says, boy, what's the matter with you? I started
saying, shut up. He says, your grades are awful. I
said, but sir, he says, what about this trig grade?
I had a 100 average in trig, and I said, sir, shut up.
He says, what about your physics grade? I said,
sir, I had a Ninety-nine something, and he asked
me, shut up! What about this chemistry? I think
I'd, shut up! And he read all these things, and he
kept telling me to shut up. And he finally says,
okay, now, he says, you just wanted to talk, says,
what, what do you got to say for yourself? I says,
sir? I thought 100 average was about as good as you
could do in trig. And 99-something in physics was
not so bad. And I went down to him, and I got the
chemistry. And I said, I got a 69 in chemistry. And I
says, I think I can bring that up to a B. And he looked
at me, and he says, what's your name? And I told him,
he says, oh, God. And he pulled me across there, and
he said. He had the wrong guy. The guy hadn't even
passed P.E. Oh, my gosh. And I don't know who that
guy was. But he was going to catch it. But anyway, as
crippled as Dr. Boughton was, he got up, he shook my
hand, and he walked with me to the door and with his
big buddies. Everything was fine. He said, you
think you can make a B in that camera? I said, I'm
pretty sure that I can. And the next close
encounter I had with Dr. Boughton was on the
interview. Now, I've talked to quite a few people,
and my daughter being one of them, that the
difference is the way they interview them
nowadays and when they did it in those days.
Nowadays they have a committee of three that
interview people and they make an appointment
sometime during the day and they talk with them for
an hour or so and they score them and it's all
written down as to how many points you get. If
you're going to get the total number of points all
three of them have to agree that you need a total. If
you're going to get a zero, all three of them have to
agree that it's a zero, and if it's a split
decision, you get it in the middle, and that's the
way your interaction goes. But in the days that we
went, they had most of the interviews at night
after class, but they didn't want you to miss any
class, and it was after dark when I went in there,
and you went in the dean's office, and they had this
swivel chair in the middle of the room. And the
department heads were in chairs all the way around
the room. Oh boy, that's the hot box. And they'd ask
you all kinds of questions, not necessarily
pertaining to your studies, because they had your
transcript, they knew what your grades were. And
never, while I was in there, was a question asked by
a person who I was facing. It was always from
behind. And you turn around and face the person and
you ask them a question and you just about finish
your answer. And the guy behind you asks you one.
You spin around and you answer him. And you just
about got dizzy and then all of a sudden knocked
about and says, okay, interview's over. And you
take out and bring somebody else in. And you had no
idea of what kind of impression you made. Because
you couldn't see the faces of the people. You were
too scared to even recognize what they were.
Inquisition almost, doesn't it? Inquisition, it
was. And in those days, being that Dr. Baffin was
the dean, you had to swear to be damned that when you
graduate, you're going to West Texas and work on
sheep and goats. And that was the thing. That got
you. That was going to get you in. That got you. But
anyway, I got in. And it was a enjoyable time. When I
first got in, all of the veterinary college was on
the main campus. And after the second year, they
moved the hospital over across the tracks. And the
time that I was a senior, they had moved the basic
science on over there. They had finished the
building there, and they had all of the vet school
there on the other side of the track scene. It is
only a very small part of the buildings that are
there right now. Yeah. It is a very small part. But
we thought it was great. We were really in the high
top cotton. It was really something. Yeah. So you
started, let me get the chronology right, you went
to A&M. 1950 is when I started as a freshman in
pre-med, and September of 1952 is when I got into
medical school, and I graduated in May 1956.
We started out with 64 in our class, and we
graduated 54. As a contrast to the way it is today,
they run about twice as many students now. They run
somewhere between about 128. And
at that time, we had a faculty total of 19 people.
They have more than that in the anatomy department
now. And that was counting the dean. Yeah. That was
different. And they were handling relatively
large loads. Well, half the number of students
where they are now. Of course, the technology
wasn't near as much. No, that's it. That world has
really changed. We had three clinicians in the
small animal. We had three clinicians in the large
animal. We had two people in anatomy. We had one in
parasitology and about three in... You remember
any special people there you remember? Dr. Turk,
everybody remembers. You know, everybody does.
Dr. Turk is one of the biggest philosophers that
veterinary medicine has ever had. I mean, he
always had a good outlook, always, everything was
funny. He enjoyed life. His death, he wore hearing
aid and therefore he talked kind of funny. He did.
And he was always pulling the gag on somebody, but
one of the smartest minds that she ever was. He had a
master's in parasitology and he confers PhDs on
people. He was that good. He was one of the most
highly recognized parasitologists in the
country. But he had no need or reason to go and get a
PhD. He knew all the stuff. He was training PhDs.
And a likable man you never saw any more likable. He
and I got into a real good thing and he was one that
always said that he didn't want anybody bringing
him a paper complaining about a grade unless it's
going to make a difference in their total grade. I
mean, he didn't want to worry about it. There's
going to be a few mistakes. Well, he made a big error
on that. Well, he took off one point on it and
there's a place on the back where he should have
taken off ten more. He had it marked, but he didn't
subtract. He just batted the subtraction. And so I
went up there and showed him, and man, he jumped on
me with both feet for bothering him with that
thing. Because I was complaining about a 98. And I
said, but sir, but sir, man, he's really cussing
me. But I flipped over and said, but what about this
ten you're supposed to take off? I never had
anybody come back. He says, if anyone says, I'll
split the difference with you, they'll still give
you an A. And I got an A in the course. I've had that
happen a couple times, once or twice since I've
been teaching. And that's about what I did. I said,
OK, I'll give you an A. All of a sudden, I was doing
better in the course, too. I was learning more. I
got out of it. I got more assistance from him. Oh,
you appreciate that. You remember a guy who does
that. Well, the year I graduated, I I was waiting to
go in the Army, and when you've got an Army hanging
over you, nobody wants to hire you. And so I went to
work with the government. They can't do anything
there. They've got to take you even if you're going
to go to the Army. So I'd been working with the Army,
and the ABMA convention was in San Antonio. And the
government sent all of us in Texas down there to the
convention, and I'd seen Turk. And I was going to
lunch with them, and I was going down the street,
and I heard this holler. I guess somebody
hollered, hey, Zeke! And I looked up, and Turk was
sitting on the fender of a car about a half a block
away. Come here! Get on down here! So I turned
around and come back. He says, the fella here wants
you to meet. He says, you work for the government.
He says, you need to know this guy. He says, Van
Halen, he's the head man, you know, from
Washington. No kidding. He says, you need to know
this guy. He says, he's your boss. He says, he's
your boss. He says, you're getting on a good side of
him. Your next boss, he's going to have to answer to
him. He says, get to know this guy. Get to know this
guy. He's just a regular down-to-earth sort of
person. And he was interesting to his students.
Oh, Lord. I mean, all of his students liked him. He
was great. And they say everything was nice and
funny. He was a serious man. He took everything
serious, but Not so seriously. There wasn't humor
in things. He was very, very humorous. Like the
story he told on himself that Dr. Batten called him
up and wondered, says, what was it you told this
Miss so-and-so? Says, who? Miss so-and-so. She
called me and said that the guy with that hearing
aid over there was a smart aleck. Oh, her. Says,
well, what did you tell her? Says, she came over
there and she was worried. Says, She wanted me to do
something, said her cat was up in the tree and
couldn't get down. I said, well, what did you tell
her? She said, I just told her not to worry about it.
I said, I've never seen no cat skeletons in a tree.
But this is just the way he approached things. When
you got out of school, when you graduated, you went
to service. Well, first I went to work for the
government. I tested cows for the government,
and... They could have kept me out of the service.
All I had to do was sign my name and I would have got a
deferment. And I told them, I said, well, I may want
to spend my life working for the government, but I
want to do it on my terms. I don't want you to say,
okay, now, if you want to quit, well, hey, then
you're going to have to go to the army now. I said,
I'm going to get my army out of the way. And if I come
back, anytime I want to. Another thing that Dr.
Turk always told us, he says, Always have you a
license. Keep your license paid up. He said, you
may have a job that doesn't require a license. He
says, but they come give you a hard time. He said,
you just point at your license and say, hey, man, I
can go work for myself. He says, if you don't have
one of those, you're out of their funds. And so I
remember that. And I told him, I said, well, I'm
going to go to service. So I had it made all the time
that I was in the service. I hate to even mention how
easy that I did have it. I had checked with them and I
had sent in application for commission and they
sent it back. It was Charlie Wilson who cut them out
and said there might be a few around but there's
going to wait for those that have been called
rather than just take them in. Says keep the
application and when you
get your call, send it back and tell us that you've
gotten your draft notice. It hadn't been all ready
to go. And I went back and talked to the draft board
to see what it was all about. And they said, OK, when
you send that in, did you send us a letter
requesting us to hold up your thing? I said, but we
can't hold it up until we get word from them that
they're processing the commission. I said, fine.
Well, I got my paperwork, and I dropped the
envelope in the mail right then. I sent the other
envelope that I already had made out to the draft
board saying, hold up. Well, by return mail, I got
my commission application back and a letter and
said that I'd have gotten my draft notice and said
that they didn't have any commissions available.
Sorry. And so I said, well, I've got to go. So I quit
my job with the government and went home and showed
up to the draft board. And they put me on a bus in
downtown El Paso, carried me out to Fort Bliss.
heard everybody in the room, and this sergeant ran
up to the front and says, okay, everybody stay
there in your chair until I call your name, then
come up here, grab this bottle of pee in it, and sit
it over there and wait in line. He called out all
these names he got through, and he was pulling up
his thing, and I was sitting down there, and he
looked down and he says, what are you doing sitting
down there? He told me to sit here, and he called my
name. I hadn't heard it yet. Come up here. I said,
what's your name? And I told him, and he couldn't
find it. I said, let me see your draft card. So I
showed it to him, and well, After I'd gotten my
degree, well, the draft board stamped across my
card, special registration, because it also
registered for the doctor's draft. He read
letters across the front that said special
registration. He said, sit down, sir. Sit down.
Just a minute. He took off. He came back with the
major. The major wanted to see my draft card. Sit
down, sir. Sit down, sir. Boy, I mean, I was really
somebody. He took me to the major's office, and
they called the draft board. And the draft board
didn't want to talk to him, says, let me talk to Dr.
Skidmore. got on the phone with the girl's grandpa
and says, hey, we got your letter. He says, we're
holding up your paper. He says, you don't have to go
if you don't want to. I said, well, you told me. He
says, ah, don't worry about it. He says, if you
don't want to go, why don't you go? Just tell them
adios. Yeah, that's a hard moment of decision.
There you are sitting there. Now, I had already
talked to the base veterinarian there, and he
says, now, they're doing basic training here. He
says, I'll try to get you, as soon as basic
training's over, get you into the veterinary
service, and then we'll work on getting you a
commission. Well, I didn't stay there for basic
training. They sent me off to Fort Hood. And I went
through... basic training there and being an A&M
graduate and had a good bit of the military, and
they were short-handed. They had very little
cadre. They had three officers and four sergeants
to take care of a whole company of men and train
them. So I taught 50% of the class. I was made an
Aggie sergeant. I was the only guy in the company
that could go to the PX and drink beer anytime I
wanted to. But I had it made. And then for the next
bit, I went to Stele at Fort Hood. Because I wanted
to stay at Fort Hood because I could go back and
forth to Palestine and see my wife. I wasn't
married to yet. And then the whole bunch was being
sent to Germany as replacements in the 3rd Army
Division. So I got married three weeks before I
shipped out to Germany. And she stayed here and I
shipped out to Germany and we got on the ship and it
had When we was down in the hole, the peons down
there in the hole, it was awful. Anyway, the word
got out that I was a veterinarian, so they called me
up, and there was dependents that had pets. And
says, hey, will you take care of the pet deck? And it
was a deck that was a little bit bigger than these
two rooms together, and they had a fancy cage. They
said, you don't have to do anything. They've got to
feed them, and they've got to walk around. But you
keep the deck clean. And nobody's allowed up here
besides the dependents. And I looked down and,
golly, GI's everywhere. You don't have a place to
stand, sit, or anything. I had this all to myself. I
said, I'll take it. I'll take it. Well, anyway, one
of the guys that were there with the pet happened to
be the first sergeant that was going over. And he
was in charge of the veterinary division at Market
Center. I got to talking to him. He says, well,
that's a bad deal. He says, as soon as I get there,
I'll talk to Colonel Watson. He says, we'll get you
changed over to the veterinary services. We got
enlisted people and the like. I mean, I didn't even
know a lot about the veterinary services. He says,
we'll get you there. First chance you get, you come
in to Frankfort, and we'll see about getting you
changed. And I told him where I was going to go and
everything. Well, I no sooner got to where I was
supposed to be And they moved me to another plant.
And so they couldn't find me. And I was trying my
best to get in Frankfurt. I stationed in Hanau,
about 50 kilometers out of Frankfurt. You know,
work all day, and the market center closed on the
weekends, and this, that, and the other. Well, the
first sergeant that comes through the barracks
one day says, next Thursday is the 4th of July. He
says, it's a holiday. He says, but I'm taking
volunteers for a parade. He says, we've got to have
a parade on the 4th of July, and anybody that
volunteers for a parade will have the 5th off. I
said, take me. Take me. That's what you've been
looking for. Get out. Shoot, I was on the drill team
and everything. In college, I wasn't afraid to go
for a parade. Most of those guys didn't know how to
march, let alone go for a parade. It's awful.
Anyway, I went. right and early the next minute I
went on a train to Frankfurt. I went up there and
told them where I was, what I was doing, and
everything. And they said, well, we'll check on
you. We'll work you. And all of the time that I
talked to them in the meantime, I told them, you
know, I'd like to get out. And it's impossible, it
is absolutely impossible to transfer out of the
Third Army. And I told them that. I said, well, I
said, You just be quiet. He says, we'll take care of
things. Well, the next Monday, when I got back from
work at noon, the guys in the barracks that work
personnel says, hey, somebody down in Frankfort
knows you. I said, yeah. He says, the major's been
on the phone all morning about you. I said, what's
going on? We had dinner, and I was sitting around
the barracks waiting to go back to work, and the
major comes up. All of a sudden, he's a
buddy-buddy, and he says, say, who do you know down
in Frankfort? I said, I don't know who's down
there. And he looked at me and said, well, some of
the, I don't know. And he, and all this went on for a
couple weeks. He was calling this, that, and the
other. And my spies in there kept telling me, he
says, you know, they're working on it. And Major's
trying to give so-and-so, I mean, he's a guy with
about 45 IQ, he's trying to send them over there,
and this, that, and the other. And so I did get back
into Frankfort to see him once again, and they
said, well, we, About got this deal worked. Says,
you play ignorant. Says, but next week, says,
you're going to get orders to be transferred to us.
And your orders are going to say that you're
supposed to go to Holland. Says, but that's not a
good post. We're going to change you to
Copenhagen. Says, you, when you get them, you tell
them to just send you to Market Center and we'll
take care of everything." He says, "'Cause you
can't go to Holland anyway or Copenhagen, either
one, because all you got is a uniform and you can't
go in there with a uniform. You gotta go in civilian
clothes." So the Major and the First Sergeant,
they kept asking me a few questions. I didn't know
anything. Colonel Watson had told me, he said, you
know, the less you know, the better off anyway. And
so they had I was a very sorry radio operator, so
they sent me to typing school because it's good to
give you teletypewriters and teach me to type so I
can run a teletypewriter. And one afternoon, the
first sergeant called over and says, turn in your
typewriter. He says, you're going to Holland. He
says, get your foot over here to the, he says, I've
got two days to get you out of here. So I went over
there and I said, now, sergeant, I said, all you got
to do is clear me post, get through the Captain's
driver took me and dumped me down at the Market
Center in Frankfort. He said, I can't do that. Your
orders ain't safe. I said, look, how come just two
hours ago you're saying that now you know what's
the matter? But anyway, I convinced him to call,
and I had the number, and I told him to call Colonel
Watson and get the scoop on it. The colonel says,
just send him down here, and we'll take care of him.
He says, I'll be your back. Anyway, I got down
there, and they I stayed a couple of days while they
processed me and changed my orders and issued me
civilian clothes and sent me to Copenhagen where I
was assigned to the embassy. Well, that's nice.
That's where our office was. But we was inspecting
meat and foods, all dairy products and everything
that was produced in Denmark. It was going to the
troops in Germany. But Denmark did not allow
uniformed foreign troops on their soil. So we all
wore civilian clothes. And it was a nice place.
It's a clean place. At the time, I smoked. And I
wouldn't dare drop a cigarette butt on the street,
because I'd be the only one in town. I'd go back to
the embassy, and both of my suit pockets would be
full of cigarette butts. And I'd empty them out in a
wastebasket. It's a clean town. If you dropped
your gum on the street, you wouldn't be afraid to
pick it up and put it back in your mouth. It is very
nice. The people are nice, friendly, and all.
Anyway, while I was there, I got a letter from my
brother. He sent me a card that said the 4th Army,
which is in Texas, had an opening for a
veterinarian they wanted me to send in my
application. So I told the colonel, I said, hey,
they got one here for that thing that's for 4th
Army. Just a minute, he got on the phone and they got
him to change that allocation for 7th Army, which
is here. And so I had to go take a physical and all
that kind of stuff. And they sent me down to
Frankfort to get a physical. I had no sooner flown
back, and the colonel says, you got to go back to
Frankfort. that they didn't get a full picture of
your chest on x-rays. I said, I'm six foot two, and
I've got 30 inch legs. I'm all chest. And they
missed it. They missed it. They just missed it.
They missed part of it. So I had to fly back to
Frankfurt. They took another picture of my chest,
and they processed the, I think it took them about
four weeks to process the commission for me. And in
the States, it takes about 12 or so weeks. Yeah, you
were living sort of a charmed life. I was. That's
what I say. I mean, I had it. Why didn't I stay in the
Army? Yeah. I wanted to be a veterinary
practitioner. I didn't want to be there to begin
with. But it was all the way through, it was a nice
thing for me. In fact, I signed the papers. My
executive officer signed the papers.
The commander signed the papers. The special
courier took them to Frankfurt. They signed the
papers and they went by special courier to
Heidelberg, which is the USAR headquarters in the
the chief user of veterinarian signed them there
and they hand carried them and woke up a two-star
general in the middle of the night to get the
authorization for it. And he had already said, now
whatever time they come in, get me up and I'll sign
them. And at two o'clock in the morning they woke
him up and he signed the papers and got a teletype to
Washington to get the thing. I mean, it's all
working for them. Yeah, it really is. The bad part
of it was then they thought maybe I'd want to stay in
the service. And there I was in a place that didn't
even wear uniforms anymore. So they transferred
me to Munich, which is a very nice place, if you've
never been to Copenhagen. If you've never been to
Copenhagen, it's a real nice place, but it's a step
down. Tough life you're living. Tough life. But
they had an officer there that was a regular Army
officer in a very and they wanted to be sure that I
knew how to operate as a military officer if I ever
did want to stay. And what really chapped me is as a
PFC in Denmark, being that there's no military and
no PX and this and that, with all of the different
pay and all that I got, I jumped from PFC to a first
lieutenant and moved to Munich and as a first
lieutenant In the veterinary corps, I got an extra
$100 a month professional pay, and it cost me about
$100 a month to do that. I mean, I was making more as a
PSC than I was as a... But anyway, I had to sign up for
two years from that time, and my wife had already
come over. I made her way over, and we lived there in
Munich for two years, and our oldest child was born
there about five weeks before we came back. Just
old, just was old enough to travel. And I went ahead
and got out and went to work in a private practice in
Gainesville. In Gainesville? Gainesville,
Texas, up on the Red River. How'd you get there? I
had put an ad in the ABMA Journal that I was, would be
available in January of 1950. 1960.
And I got this letter that this was available, and
it was on my way, because I drove from New York down,
and so I just stopped by there and checked with
them. On the way to Palestine, where my wife and
daughter were, they flew back. Incidentally,
they had... Go ahead. Was this a practice that you
were buying? No, no, I was just going to work for
him. You were open up. I was just going to go work for
this guy. Oh, okay. He had a practice doctor,
Gordon Yergin. Okay. And he said, yeah, come to
work as soon as you can. So I went and spent
Christmas with my in-laws and went back up there
and found a place to live. And it was just for a
two-year period because his associate had gone to
the service. And so I was there for two years. And I
feel that any... veterinarian, you're not
required to intern as a veterinarian. But all
veterinarians, when they graduate, should work
with another practitioner. Because there's a lot
of things that you can learn they do not, cannot,
should not teach you in school. Well, that's the
way with Alec Sears. Apparently, he opened up his
office flat, cold,
He's Texas, wherever it was. Anyway, he had, and I
kind of followed this because not many people do
that, and that's ill-advised, but he had a really
strong background in economics. And I have a sense
that that was a big plus for him. Apparently he set
up a practice, and it was a marketable thing. He
sold it in two years and then moved over here. Yeah.
See, it's very difficult to practice economics.
like you should. And be a businessman too. And well
not only that, but see they teach you the exact
procedure like it should be done in school, which
they should. But then there are a lot of shortcuts
that you need to do if you're going to make a living
at it. And you need to learn. And one of the big
examples is the first day I went into this
practice, I had to remove a cancer eye from a cow.
And I did just like the book and how they taught me in
school. And it took me about four hours to do it, and
it was a sorry job. The day I left, I had to take a
cat's ride out of Macau. From the time the guy drove
up to the time he drove off was 20 minutes, and it was
a darn good job. I mean, it's experience and a few
things that you learn to do, and it may not be the
exact procedure, but it is better. Because when
you're in school, you don't care about time.
You're learning. It's a learning process. The
more sutures you make, the better you get at
suturing. When you're making a liver, the fewer
sutures you make, the quicker you get done. And
it's that simple. It changes your whole...
Anyway, I went to... That's a good point. There for
two years, and then I tried to put in a practice in my
old hometown in El Paso, and I could not get any
zoning like I needed. Okay, I picked up on that a lot
too. I went to the zoning board and where I really
had trouble with the zoning board, I think there
were seven people on the zoning board. And to get a
variance, you had to have six of them for you. There
was one guy on the zoning board that he vowed, and it
was made public, that he would not ever vote for a
variance. Because if there should be a variance,
it should change the law. And the variances were
not. He would not vote for a variance. So it would
take a unanimous of the others to get it. One of the
others was a wife of a veterinarian in town. So she
would abstain because of it. So there's no way I can
get six votes. And so I worked as a day laborer at a
new post office there. I worked as a day laborer. Is
that right? Yeah, just to keep going while I was
trying to get this zoning. And it was at Christmas
time so I worked nights at the post office sorting
mail. And I soon quit that night job because I had to
get home one time while my daughter was awake and
she was hiding behind her mother like she didn't
even recognize me. I said, this isn't going to get
it. So in the meantime, I needed somebody back in
his practice, an additional body. So I went back
there with him for about six months. And a
classmate of mine was going to go to Guam and was
wanting to lease out his practice in Mesquite. So I
leased his practice and went there. And this is one
of the big reasons that I went there. When you go to
work for somebody, you always have this wonder if
people are using you just because they can't get to
the guy you're working for. I mean, you're just a
second choice. And you wonder if you can do it on
your own. So you want to have this idea. I am going to
be the man. And anything that I get is because they
came to see me, not because they couldn't get the
other guy. So you've got to have this. It's there.
And it's what I tell so many guys that hire people to
work for them. And they say, golly, I hired him. I
said, boy, he's real good. And I thought he'd stay
with me. But he left. I said, he had never been on his
own. I said, if you want somebody to stay, hire
somebody that's already been on his own once. Then
he'll stay. Gee, never thought of that. But
anyway, it's a built-in thing. So I went there and
found out that I could do it myself and felt good
about it. Then he came back and we were going to be
partners and we didn't get along too good.
Everybody has differences in any way. Dan
Anderson then was needing somebody, so I came over
here to work. I went to work with Dan Anderson. I
worked with him for about 11 years, and I decided to
go on my own tour in Euless, and moved to Euless, and
I've been there ever since. Now, when you first
came to, well, Gainesville, let's say, with Dan
Anderson, are you in large animal? Are you horses?
Horses, cattle, general practices are those
things. You don't turn anything. Anything, okay.
I said chickens and snakes. That's about the only
thing I turned down is chickens and snakes. In hope
that nobody brought me hogs, but I did work them.
But did you get in the same way? I guess you did. At
what point did you notice that your practice was
distinctly changing, when you were with Dan
Anderson or when you were on your own at Euless?
When I was on my own at Euless, when I was with Dan,
that's when we were doing the work for Bone and
Hunt, both of us. I was doing most of it out there.
And I told you about how they kind of gave me a
glancing eye, but once it was established I mean, I
don't want to sound like I'm a blowhard, but I was a
good veterinarian, and that's what it is. Good
psychology, that's right. I just wanted to sell my
veterinary skills, not my ability to round up
cattle and all that kind of stuff. And that's
when I was working for Dan Anderson, and we did a
good bit of charlay people in the work out around.
Once you go to working for some of them that are in a
group, And particularly if you're capable of
handling their sails for them, get their animals
ready for sale, get them tested and their ghouls
fertility tested and all that, and being able to
handle them, all of a sudden they flock in on you and
we'd have a sale going on most all the time, and it
was nice. And these people paid money. They never
did ask about, oh, gee, you're charging us too
much, or this, that, and the other. We sent them a
bill, and if I returned mail, you'd get it back.
Well, I didn't say return mail. Here's another
thing that I've learned. A lot of these big people,
and you don't need to mention this until you've
done your hunts, number one, these big
corporations, they'll float no matter who it is.
If there's not a thing, they'll put off paying you
for years and years and years if they can. It's a way
of doing business. Well, when I was in
Gainesville, I happened to learn from a fellow
station that took care of my car. He's a mechanic
and he's having trouble getting money out of these
old field trucks he's working on. Slumber J and you
know, these big things. He's working, he sent him a
bill and you know, he'd eventually get it and he
wasn't getting it. And one of the drivers then told
him, he says, what you've got to do, and I remember
this and this is what we did the whole time. He says,
what you've got to do when you do work for them, he
says, charge them about 25% more than you do other
people, send them their bill, and tell them if they
pay you within 10 days to take a 10% discount. And
you're still ahead. And you're still ahead. And in
10 days, you get your money just like that. That's
good technology. So some of our big ones that were a
little bit slow, we'd do that. We'd charge them a
little bit more and put on their bill. We'd pay in 10
days, deduct so much, and we'd give them a pretty
good discount. Just like that, you get a return.
And that's true for any kind of business. Because I
gather that's another problem in veterinary
medicine. It's collecting. In a small animal, in
my business now, I have no accounts receivable. My
charges are MasterCard and Visa. And I just tell
them that my banker told me that if I didn't loan
money, he wouldn't treat animals. And we've got a
deal going. That's good, yeah. And this is the way
it works. It's old. It gets stung every now and
then. A lot of times they don't have their money
with them. There's a lot of things that never wait
to decay. And we do it. Now, it gets stung every now
and then, but unfortunately not too often. Any of
it, it hurts.
So now, but when did you begin to know? Let's talk
about the large animal, small animal conversion.
I noticed. Because when I moved to Euless, I had a
large animal hospital. I bought it from a person
who was only using it for small animals at the time.
But it had large animal facilities there. We had a
nice small animal clinic. We had a large animal
surgery, large animal treatment room, a barn with
four stalls. We had all of the facilities for large
and small animals. And what year is this? Do you
remember? 1978.
So I did make a practice and I had a band and I made
calls and this and that. And like I say, north of me
there was wide open country, lots of horses and
all. And then they started building. And then in
1984, it was just about crowding me out. I mean, I'd
have to travel too far to do horses, except race
horses. And I could not find a race horse trainer
that would use me. Because I would only treat them
with what medications I thought they ought to
have, not the medications that they wanted me to
give them. And that just didn't work out. So most of
my horse work was individual owners. And they'd
just been moved out. So I didn't have that much
work. And way out for cattle, and that's by myself
if I spent several hours gone just going and coming
while I had to charge them so much that they
couldn't afford me and be gone from a small animal
practice that I couldn't do anything. And then the
local bank came and said, we're doing real good and
we're going to put in another bank and this
location is a place that we'd like to have in the
area around here. So I got to looking and to fix that
place up like I wanted would cost me a bundle. And so
they cut me a deal that I could get out from under
what I owed some. I sold them the place and I put in
there a small animal practice in a shopping
center. And I moved from about a 6,000 square foot
hospital to a 1,200 square foot hospital. Do you
have a partner's now? Well, I moved into that place
in 84. And my daughter graduated from vet school in
85 and was taking her to come there. So she
graduated, I put her name on the window. She came in
and she worked with me until October, because in
the meantime there's a practice that became
available and we was able to, well it was before she
graduated and I was trying to negotiate. Even
then, you know, funds are hard to get by, this,
that, and the other, and it took until October that
we were able to swing the deal and we got it for her
over there. So she's out there, but we function for
each other. I mean, if I've got to be gone a half day
or anything, well, we'll schedule it. She'll come
to my place and do it, and I'll go to hers and help
her. Or maybe she's got something she needs some
help on, well, I'll go there during the day or at
noontime or whatever. And being that she's a lot
younger and had a much more technical education
than I have, there's a lot of things I'll call her,
hey, how about this, that, and the other, and
she'll call me and say, hey, Dad, didn't they used
to use such and such? We complement each other. And
it works real nice, and I enjoy it. She's
independent, you're independent. That's right,
yeah. I'm surprised you didn't think about
partnerships and all this. Well, that was
originally. But on the other hand, there wasn't
enough business to all of a sudden do it. And it
would have taken a while. Well, here's one that's
far enough apart that we're not wrong with each
other. And yet, we have several common clients. It
happens to be which way they want to go. And then
they come back and forth. It works out real well.
Let me ask you a little bit about TVMA and your
association. When did you become tuned in, you
might say, to TVMA? I would say that probably Dan
Anderson did more to help me decide to do, to get
involved with organized veterinary medicine
than anybody because he is a past president of the
AVMA. and he was quite active in that. He's never
been real active in TPMA. He's very active in
Organized Veterinary Medicine and I was working
with him and I just kind of tuned in to that and of
course, in the meantime too, Charles Huth was the
Executive Secretary. And so I do a little going on
and then there's always something that was being
passed or new things going on that I didn't
necessarily agree with. And I said, hey, why
didn't they ask me? They said, well, I need to get
involved. I can't just sit back and bitch. I need to
be in there when they're discussing it. Now, if I
could get my say in, If I get outvoted, fine, I'll go
along with it. But I want to be sure that they know my
side, rather than read about it in the journal and
say, hey, I wonder, did they know this? Or did they
ever think of this? And you know how it goes.
Anytime you make a decision, you always get
somebody to say, hey, did you think of that?